+++
title = "Flock 2016"
slug = "flock-2016"
date = "2016-08-14T16:30:00+05:30"
tags = ["flocktofedora", "fedora", "planet", "poland", "krakow", "flock"]
link = "https://sayanchowdhury.dgplug.org/posts/flock-2016"
description = ""
+++

{{<figure src="/images/flock2016.jpg" >}}

Flock 2016 was held in the beautiful city of Krakow, Poland from August 2nd -
August 5th, 2016.

#### Day -1

Reached Krakow tired. Spent most of the time sleeping.

#### Day 0

A lot of attendees started coming in. Met with a lot of people IRL whom I
generally talked over on IRC. In the afternoon, we went out for the city tour.
Visiting the [Oskar Schindler’s Enamel
Factory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oskar_Schindler%27s_Enamel_Factory) was
a place I always wanted to visit ever since I watched the movie Schindler’s
List.

We wandered on the streets of Krakow for an hour and returned back to the
hotel. In the evening, we headed to a nearby mall for dinner along with the
Fedora folks.

#### Day 1

Joe Brockmeier(jzb) kicked off the Flock-2016 followed by Matthew Miller
talking on “State of Fedora”. mattdm gave some insights on the
contributor-base, the user-base with interesting graphs and how things are
progressively getting better over time

Next, I attended Adam’s talk “Introducing Fedora Docker Layered Image builds”.
Ever since I joined the team I have seen him working on this. He gave a good
explanation on how Fedora would be distributing Docker images along with RPMs.

After lunch, I spend some time working on the waartaa demo. Next, I attended
the talk “Fedora’s MirrorManager - now and the future” by Adrian. The talk
covered on how the components work. Adrian talked about the past and how pingou
helped with the project’s migration. Planning to read through the arch/code
post-flock.

Next, I attended “Mailman 3 and HyperKitty” by Aurelien where he talked about
Mailman 3, Postorius and Hyperkitty. Fedora recently migrated the mailing lists
to Hyperkitty so Aurelien demoed the lists, explained the issues faced and how
one can contribute to the project.

#### Day 2

Got up with high fever and sore throat. The day started with the keynote by
Radek from Akademia Programowania. He spoke about Akademia Programowania and
demoed how they teach programming to kids. I have been seeing a few of the
tools for last few years but it was interesting to see things they have built
on top of that. Programming for fun :)

Next, “Kirk, McCoy, and Spock build the future of Fedora” by mattdm. He
explained how on to plan out things. Setting up goals and steps to backtrack to
achieve them. Waiting to watch this talk online again.

After the talk, I spent some time in the reception preparing for my talk. Post
lunch I attended talk “Nulecule - Packaging multi-container applications” by
Ratnadeep Debnath. He introduced ADB - Atomic Developer Bundler, the need of a
better way to package the multi-container app. He walked us through Nulecule,
Atomic App along with a demo of Nulecule applications.

Next talk I attended was “Living on the edge: Using rawhide day to day” - Kevin
Fenzi. He talked about why and how he moved to rawhide and how he has been
using it for 3 years now. He gave tips on how one can migrate to rawhide and
deal with issues one might face. /me planning to move but not the primary
development machine.

Next up was my talked “Bugyou: Report bugs automatically from fedmsg”. I
introduced them to fedmsg and how the infrastructure applications use them.
Next, I introduced them with why bugyou was created? and how it works. I also
demoed them on how one can add plugins and how it will be interacting with the
issue tracking tools. The talk completed ahead of time. There was some good
conversation on why bugyou and statscache working on same logic don’t share the
code.

The talked almost killed my throat. After the talk, I had a discussion with
David Duncan on fedimg, modifications and about introducing new regions.

“Realtime IRC chat on Fedora Hubs” was my next talk. We discussed about Fedora
Hubs, the motive behind it. We talked about ircb and it’s integration with
Fedora Hubs. Good to see a lot of people chipping in for the talk. After the
talk, we had a question on why not xmpp? - which actually turned into a long
discussion. We got some really good inputs too.

#### Day 3

Fever continues. I skipped few of the lighting talks in the beginning and
joined in later. After that, I moved to Automation workshop where Ralph kept
the workshop open ended for the people to join in, state their problem and
automate it.

Though towards the end of the workshop, I was not quite well so I planned to
take some rest. I joined in later at the Infrastructure workshop where various
components of the Infra as discussion and how things can be better. One of them
was making fedimg upload images to fedorainfracloud.
[Link](https://github.com/fedora-infra/fedimg/issues/10#issuecomment-237539699)

#### Day 4

Fever goes down a bit. I joined in for the Ansible session where misc talked on
tips and how to approach. He walked us through the Mailman3 ansible script
within Fedora Infrastructure correcting things on the way.

Post lunch, Fedora Hubs Hackfest it was lead by Pierre-Yves Chibon. Máirín
Duffy, Szymon, and Eric joined us remotely. Pierre talked on Past, Present, and
Future of Fedora Hubs. He demoed through the various components of Hubs and how
it can be used. The demo got some really good feedback.

Apart from the talks, I hacked with Aurelien on Hyperkitty. We discussed the
issues, workflow etc. I also got myself working on an issue too.

[Check the Flickr Album for
pictures](https://www.flickr.com/photos/sayanchowdhury/sets/72157671557686361)
